http://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Server.properties url to find this in a more ledgable form.

Key	Type	Default Value	Description
allow-flight	boolean	false	Allows users to use flight on your server while in Survival mode, if they have a mod that provides flight installed.
With allow-flight enabled griefers will possibly be more common, because it will make their work easier. In Creative mode this has no effect.
false - Flight is not allowed (players in air for at least 5 seconds will be kicked).
true - Flight is allowed, and used if the player has a fly mod installed.
allow-nether	boolean	true	Allows players to travel to the Nether.
false - Nether portals will not work.
true - The server will allow portals to send players to the Nether.
announce-player-achievements	boolean	true	Allows server to announce when a player gets an achievement.
difficulty	integer (0-3)	1	Defines the difficulty (such as damage dealt by mobs and the way hunger and poison affects players) of the server.
0 - Peaceful
1 - Easy
2 - Normal
3 - Hard
enable-query	boolean	false	Enables GameSpy4 protocol server listener. Used to get information about server.
enable-rcon	boolean	false	Enables remote access to the server console.
enable-command-block	boolean	false	Enables command blocks
force-gamemode	boolean	false	Force players to join in the default game mode.
false - Players will join in the gamemode they left in.
true - Players will always join in the default gamemode.
gamemode	integer (0-3)	0	Defines the mode of gameplay.
0 - Survival
1 - Creative
2 - Adventure
3 - Spectator
generate-structures	boolean	true	Defines whether structures (such as villages) will be generated.
false - Structures will not be generated in new chunks.
true - Structures will be generated in new chunks.
Note: Dungeons and Nether Fortresses will still generate if this is set to false.
generator-settings	string	blank	The settings used to customize Superflat world generation. See Superflat for possible settings and examples.
hardcore	boolean	false	If set to true, players will be permanently banned if they die.
level-name	string	world	The "level-name" value will be used as the world name and its folder name. You may also copy your saved game folder here, and change the name to the same as that folder's to load it instead.
Characters such as ' (apostrophe) may need to be escaped by adding a backslash before them.
level-seed	string	blank	Add a seed for your world, as in Singleplayer.
Some examples are: minecraft, 404, 1a2b3c.
level-type	string	DEFAULT	Determines the type of map that is generated.
DEFAULT - Standard world with hills, valleys, water, etc.
FLAT - A flat world with no features, meant for building.
LARGEBIOMES - Same as default but all biomes are larger.
AMPLIFIED - Same as default but world-generation height limit is increased.
max-build-height	integer	256	The maximum height in which building is allowed. Terrain may still naturally generate above a low height limit.
max-players	integer (0-2147483647)	20	The maximum number of players that can play on the server at the same time. Note that if more players are on the server it will use more resources. Note also, op player connections are not supposed to count against the max players, but ops currently cannot join a full server. Extremely large values for this field result in the client-side user list being broken.
motd	string	A Minecraft Server	This is the message that is displayed in the server list of the client, below the name.
The MOTD does support color and formatting codes.
If the MOTD is over 59 characters, the server list will likely report a communication error.
online-mode	boolean	true	Server checks connecting players against minecraft's account database. Only set this to false if your server is not connected to the Internet. Hackers with fake accounts can connect if this is set to false! If minecraft.net is down or inaccessible, no players will be able to connect if this is set to true. Setting this variable to off purposely is called "cracking" a server, and servers that are presently with online mode off are called "cracked" servers, allowing players with unlicensed copies of Minecraft to join.
true - Enabled. The server will assume it has an Internet connection and check every connecting player.
false - Disabled. The server will not attempt to check connecting players.
op-permission-level	integer (1-4)	4	Sets permission level for ops.
1 - Ops can bypass spawn protection.
2 - Ops can use /clear, /difficulty, /effect, /gamemode, /gamerule, /give, and /tp, and can edit command blocks.
3 - Ops can use /ban, /deop, /kick, and /op.
4 - Ops can use /stop.
player-idle-timeout	integer	0	If non-zero, players are kicked from the server if they are idle for more than that many minutes.
Note: Idle time is reset when the server receives one of the following packets:
102 (0x66) WindowClick
108 (0x6c) ButtonClick
130 (0x82) UpdateSign
14 (0xe) BlockDig
15 (0xf) Place
16 (0x10) BlockItemSwitch
18 (0x12) ArmAnimation
19 (0x13) EntityAction
205 (0xcd) ClientCommand
3 (0x3) Chat
7 (0x7) UseEntity
pvp	boolean	true	Enable PvP on the server. Players shooting themselves with arrows will only receive damage if PvP is enabled.
Note: Indirect damage sources spawned by players (such as lava, fire, TNT and to some extent water, sand and gravel) will still deal damage to other players.
true - Players will be able to kill each other.
false - Players cannot kill other players (also known as Player versus Environment (PvE)).
query.port	integer (1-65534)	25565	Sets the port for the query server (see enable-query).
rcon.password	string	blank	Sets the password to rcon.
rcon.port	integer (1-65534)	25575	Sets the port to rcon.
resource-pack	string	blank	Server prompts client to download resource pack upon join. This link must be a direct link to the actual resource pack .zip file.
server-ip	string	blank	Set this if you want the server to bind to a particular IP. It is strongly recommended that you leave server-ip blank!
Set to blank, or the IP you want your server to run (listen) on.
server-name	string	Unknown Server	The name of your server.
server-port	integer (1-65534)	25565	Changes the port the server is hosting (listening) on. This port must be forwarded if the server is hosted in a network using NAT (If you have a home router/firewall).
snooper-enabled	boolean	true	Sets whether the server sends snoop data regularly to http://stats.minecraft.net.
false - disable snooping.
true - enable snooping.
spawn-animals	boolean	true	Determines if animals will be able to spawn.
true - Animals spawn as normal.
false - Animals will immediately vanish.
Tip: if you have major lag, turn this off/set to false.
spawn-monsters	boolean	true	Determines if monsters will be spawned.
true - Enabled. Monsters will appear at night and in the dark.
false - Disabled. No monsters.
This does nothing if difficulty = 0 (peaceful) Unless your difficulty is not set to 0, when a monster can still spawn from a Monster Spawner. Tip: if you have major lag, turn this off/set to false.
spawn-npcs	boolean	true	Determines if villagers will be spawned.
true - Enabled. Villagers will spawn.
false - Disabled. No villagers.
spawn-protection	integer	16	Determines the radius of the spawn protection. Setting this to 0 will not disable spawn protection. 0 will protect the single block at the spawn point. 1 will protect a 3x3 area centered on the spawn point. 2 will protect 5x5, 3 will protect 7x7, etc. This option is not generated on the first server start and appears when the first player joins. If there are no ops set on the server, the spawn protection will be disabled automatically.
view-distance	integer (3-15)	10	Sets the amount of world data the server sends the client, measured in chunks in each direction of the player (radius, not diameter). It determines the server-side viewing distance. The "Far" viewing distance is 16 chunks, sending 1089 total chunks (the amount of chunks that the server will load can be seen in the debug screen). "Normal" view distance is 8, for 289 chunks.
10 is the default/recommended. If you have major lag, reduce this value.
white-list	boolean	false	Enables a whitelist on the server.
With a whitelist enabled, users not on the whitelist will be unable to connect. Intended for private servers, such as those for real-life friends or strangers carefully selected via an application process, for example.
Note - Ops are automatically white listed, and there is no need to add them to the whitelist.
false - No white list is used.
true - The file white-list.txt is used to generate the white list.
